Terrain: Plains, Desert, Swamp, Water, Hills, Mountains
Unless otherwise noted, all units are weak on Desert, Swamp, and Water

Humans
	Lifespan: 70
	Repro: Normal
	Strong On: Plains
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal

Difficulty: Easy

Humans are a sturdy race, perhaps the most widespread of all.  They tend to live
in large cities on flat ground, and prefer to fight with swords.  Humans are
skilled at farming and tending to livestock, and they also have a way with tools
and more advanced machinary.

Elves
	Lifespan: 130
	Repro: Slow
	Strong On: Forest
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	Cannot harvest trees.  Instead, wood is provided from a Druid's Garden.

Difficulty: Easy

The elves are a race of long-lived forest dwellers, highly in tune with nature.
Though their laws forbid harming a tree, their attunement to earth magic allows
them to grow a "Druid's Garden," filled with trees which willingly give up their
branches for use.  Elves are skilled fighters, particularly with an elven bow,
a weapon prized universally for its perfection.

Dwarves
	Lifespan: 100
	Repro: Slow
	Weak On: Plains
	Strong On: Mountains (Hills?)
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal

Difficulty: Easy

Dwarves are a race of mountain-dwellers, and are uncomfortable on flat land.
They are adept fighters, particularly comfortable with heavy armor and a heavier
weapon, and their proficiency at crafting both is legendary.  They are also
skilled builders and miners.

Orcs
	Lifespan: 50
	Repro: Fast
	Strong On: Hills
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Low
  Warfare gives morale bonus, not malus

Difficulty: Medium

Orcs are a warlike race, related to humans but strikingly different in
temperment.  Though competent city-builders, their real strength--and the basis
of their economy--usually lies in raiding others nearby, even other orcs. Orcish
axes are legendary weapons, and orcish armor is of high quality, but any goods
unrelated to warfare tend to be shoddy.

Goblins
	Lifespan: 40
	Repro: Very Fast
  Food: Low
  Morale: Low
  Trains sappers

Difficulty: Easy

Degenerate cousins of orcs, goblins are much smaller and weaker.  As a result,
their innate warlike tendencies are tempered slightly, and goblins are more
inclined to self-reliance.  Their skill in combat is only decent, but goblins
are adept sneakers, and make excellent thieves.  Their destructive abilities
are legendary, and often employ teams of sappers to infiltrate and destroy
enemy barricades.

Kobolds
	Lifespan: 40
	Repro: Fast
	Strong On: Hills, Swamp
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	Eats refuse.

Difficulty: Easy

Kobolds are small, ugly creatures, generally considered quite unpleasant by most
others.  Kobolds generally live as scavengers, and their digestive system is so
strong that they will happily eat rotten meat or garbage.  Though kobolds don't
possess the attention span for most manufactured goods, their intimate
relationship with fermentation makes kobold beers and liquors legendary--if a
bit suspect.

Ogres
	Lifespan: 60
	Repro: Normal
	Strong On: Hills, Plains
  Food: High
  Morale: Normal

Difficulty: Easy

Ogres are large, muscular creatures, some twice as tall as a human.  Despite
their intimidating stature, ogres are not particularly violent in nature; on the
contrary, they tend to be devoted farmers, and their relationship with livestock
is unrivaled.  Though they are strong agriculturalists as well, ogres are not
skilled at making tools, and often buy them from neighboring dwarves.

Trolls
	Lifespan: 90
	Repro: Slow
	Weak On: Plains
	Strong On: Mountains
  Food: Very High
  Morale: Very Low
  Warfare does not affect morale

Difficulty: Hard

Trolls are hulking furry beasts with a hunchback, drooling fang-rimmed mouths,
and arms the size of a human.  Though some have argued that trolls are non-
sentient bloodthirsty beasts, the fact is that trolls usually live in colonies
and do have the capability of forging weapons and armor.  However, that is the
extent of their abilities, and they have no interest in other goods.  A troll in
combat is a terrifying sight, able to take on a dozen or more humans, with flesh
that heals from any wound in a matter of hours.

Naga
	Lifespan: 90
	Repro: Normal (eggs)
	Weak On: Hills, Mountains
	Strong On: Desert, Swamp
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
  Can build normally on desert and swamp

Difficulty: Moderate

Naga are beings with a humanoid torso, head, and arms, but their lower body is a
large snake tail.  Naga are skilled fighters and natural magic-users, and a naga
scimitar is universally prized.  Naga have a difficult time in rough terrain,
but can move swiftly across desert sand and swim well in water or swamps.  Nagas
are divided by outsiders into the categories of "Swamp Naga" and "Desert Naga,"
but in truth both are the same species.

Gnomes
	Lifespan: 100
	Repro: Slow
	Weak On: Plains
	Strong On: Mountains
  Food: Low
  Morale: Normal
	Goods may randomly produce an Artifact.

Difficulty: Moderate

Gnomes are a secretive bunch who rarely venture outside their cities.  Their
society is built around a system of guilds, most of which produce fine goods.
Gnomes are utilitarians, and while their tools, and devices, are the highest
quality, their creative efforts are sub-par.  Gnomes are crafty barterers, and
generally extract exorbitant prices for their goods.  Gnomes are also natural
atheists, and only very rarely become religious.

Avians
	Lifespan: 70
	Repro: Normal (eggs)
	Strong On: Plains, Desert
	Normal On: Water, Swamp
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	Flies over terrain, and can avoid melee combat.

Difficulty: Moderate

Avians are a race of bird-like humanoids which tend to build cities in hard-to-
reach plateaus and cliffsides.  They generally live as hunters, and a group of
avians armed with bows is frightening for any foe, particularly those who cannot
shoot back.  However, if an avian is caught in melee combat, their nearly-hollow
bones make them easy to bring down.

Minotaur
	Lifespan: 80
	Repro: Normal
	Strong On: Plains
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	Builds Labyrinths.

Difficulty: Easy

Minotaurs are a bovine race, generally quite strong.  They have a strong
reclusive instinct, and are skilled builders.  They also fare well with
livestock, though they find keeping cows distasteful.  Though peaceful in
nature, minotaurs are skilled weaponsmiths and perform well in melee combat.

Halfling
	Lifespan: 100
	Repro: Normal
  Food: High
  Morale: High
	Double bonuses from food.

Difficulty: Hard

Halflings are a small, reclusive race, and are generally considered quiet and
peaceful.  Their farms produce healthier crops than any others, and halflings
are devoted cooks, producing food delicious enough to draw travelers from miles.
They enjoy eating even more than cooking, and halflings often eat 8 meals or
more in a day.

Apiads
	Lifespan: 10
	Repro: Lightning (eggs, queen)
	Strong On: Forest
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Low
	Produce honey in hives.  Fermentation may rarely produce Royal Jelly.
	May fly.

Difficulty: Hard

Apiads are a race of large bees, with only slight humanoid features.  Apiads
live in a hive, with a single egg-producing queen, and do not have the same
concept of "the individual" which most other races do.  This unique social
perspective leaves apiads severely inept in communications with other races.
Nevertheless, the nourishing honey produced inside fortress-like apiad cities
is a definite draw for traders--and raiders.

Formicants
	Lifespan: 15
	Repro: Lightning (eggs, queen)
	Strong On: Plains
  Food: High
  Morale: Low
	Cities are dug underground.

Difficulty: Hard

Formicants are a humanoid ant race, with an overall human-like appearance, but
also antennae, two sets of arms, and a thin exoskeleton.  Formicants live in an
underground nest with a single egg-producing queen.  While Formicants are more
individuated than Apiads, they still have a natural hive mentality and are wary
of outsiders.

Arachnids
	Lifespan: 40
	Repro: Very Fast (eggs)
	Strong On: Forest
	Weak On: Plains, Desert
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	May place webs to protect city.

Difficulty: Hard

Arachnids are a race of large spiders, with only slight humanoid features.  Most
races have a natural reaction of disgust and horror upon meeting an arachnid;
however, arachnids are not particularly warlike, and are dedicated crafters,
builders and artists.  Still, arachnids are skilled in armed combat and flinging
their webs, and tend to survive as hunters.

Golems
	Lifespan: 200
	Repro: Very Slow (build)
  Food: None
  Morale: None

Difficulty: Very Easy

No-one knows when or how golems originated, but it's clear that these magically
animated statues were created by someone.  Today golems are responsible for
building new golems, giving them life using magical gemstones.  Golems have no
artistic ability whatsoever, and neither eat nor feel emotion.  This allows them
to focus on mining, building, and crafting goods; their intimate relationship to
clay and metal makes their goods of the highest quality.

Gargoyle
	Lifespan: 120
	Repro: Slow
	Strong On: Hills
  Food: High
  Morale: Normale
	May fly.

Difficulty: Hard

Gargoyles are very similar to humans, but with a hard, metallic blue skin and
large bat-like wings.  Skilled fighters, spellcasters, and hunters, gargoyles
fare well in all areas.  However, gargoyles are incapable of eating anything but
raw meat, and do not find cooked meals or fermented drink appealing.

Rakshasi
	Lifespan: 150
	Repro: Very Slow
  Food: High
  Morale: Very High
  No peasant class; farms, mines etc. must be worked by slaves.
  Starts with slaves.

Difficulty: Very Hard

Rakshasi are tall, graceful humanoids, with the head of a leopard.  No race is
more attuned to the nature of magic than they are.  Rakshasi tend to be effete
beings of luxury, excelling at artistic tasks but terrible at anything involving
manual labor.  Such work is considered to be the place of lower species-that is,
anything except a rakshasa.  Rakshasi use their magical influence to trick and
frequently enslave other races--with the exception of felids, which Rakshasi
think of a "younger sister" race.

Lizardmen
	Lifespan: 70
	Repro: Normal (eggs)
	Strong On: Desert
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Low

Difficulty: Moderate

The lizardmen are a tribalistic race scaled beings, most often found in the
desert.  Given their surroundings, lizardmen are most often hunters, and their
skill with their legendary two-tined spears is deadly.  The cold-blooded
lizardmen move and fight with incredible speed during the summer and in hot
areas like deserts; however, in winter or on cold mountaintops they struggle to
even maintain consciousness.

Draconians
	Lifespan: 100
	Repro: Slow (eggs)
	Normal On: Desert
  Food: High
  Morale: Normal
	May fly.

Difficulty: Moderate

Draconians are humanoid descendants of dragons.  Most are very large and possess
a voracious appetite, which draconians tend to sate by hunting wild beasts.
Draconians tend to fight with their claws and teeth, and as a result are quite
poor at weapon crafting, though they produce very strong armor.  However, their
finest weapon is their ability to breathe fire over a long range.  To maintain
this ability, draconians must imbibe large amounts of alcohol.

Dendroids
	Lifespan: 150
	Repro: Very Slow (seedlings)
	Strong On: Forest
	Weak On: Desert, Hills, Mountains
	Normal On: Swamp
  Food: None
  Morale: Low

Difficulty: Very Easy

Dendroids are a race of sentient trees.  Dendroids are long-lived and slow to
move or make decisions.  Dendroids are capable of producing impressive armor and
passable goods, but have no need for weapons, and no understanding of more
complex devices.  They cultivate plants, but only for their own edification--
dendroids get all their nourishment from sunlight, and do not need to eat.
Their patience and kind nature makes dendroids exceptional diplomats, but their
lack of understanding in financial matters makes them easy to swindle.

Merfolk
	Lifespan: 70
	Repro: Normal
	Strong On: Water
	Weak On: Plains, Desert, Hill, Mountain
	Normal On: Swamp
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Normal
	May dive under water, avoiding a fight.
  Most buildings can be built in water.

Difficulty: Moderate

Merfolk are a half-fish, half-human race, with both lungs and gills, making them
truely amphibious.  However, while on land they move by awkwardly swaying their
fish-like tail, and they are extremely vulnerable there, and as a result tend to
stay in their watery homes.  Merfolk are capable of diving deep underwater,
ensuring escape from nearly any fight, and excel at hunting and fishing with
their legendary tridents.

Gnolls
	Lifespan: 60
	Repro: Fast
	Strong On: Plains, Swamp
  Food: Normal
  Morale: Low
	May be cannibals without morale penalty.
  No penalty for warfare

Difficulty: Moderate

Gnolls are hyena-like humanoids, tall and tough.  They are a violent,
unpredictable race which tends to live as scavengers and pillagers.  Gnolls are
skilled weapon- and armorsmiths, but have little interest in producing tradable
goods--indeed, they have little interest in talking to anyone outside their
tribe.  Perhaps the most disturbing quality of gnolls is their practice of
cannibalism.  Any gnoll that dies, be they warrior, child, or elder, is
butchered and distributed as meat.

Felids
	Lifespan: 50
	Repro: Fast
  Food: Normal
  Morale: High
	No item use.

Difficulty: High

Felids are a race of humanoid cats, their bodies coated in fur.  They are
skilled hunters and fighters, particularly when ambushing, and have a natural
connection to magic.  This is the extent of their abilities, however; felids are
not interested in crafting items save for a few simple wooden weapons, and
barely even build cities.  They are laziness personified; indeed, felids
consider laziness to be a virtue, and achieve great pleasure from simply doing
nothing at all.

